LGBTQ+ rights have come a long way in many parts of the world.
However in some regions and countries this is not the case.
Homosexuality may be illegal,
or not culturally accepted or tolerated.
Sometimes the authorities won't help you,
if they share these biased views.
Good research and preparation
can help to mitigate the risk.
Try to understand the local culture.
All travellers should keep a low profile, so as not to draw attention to themselves.
Use multiple sources and seek advice and recommendations from friends and colleagues,
especially those who are also part of the LGBTQ+ community.
LGBTQ+ travellers have been targeted and entrapped,
so make your social media profiles private,
and on mobile devices consider hiding certain lifestyle or dating apps.
Password protect your devices,
and stop messages showing on locked screen.
When socialising, be mindful of certain colleagues or clients,
especially if drinking!
If you don't have experience of your destination,
take extra precautions if travelling with your partner.
Hotel staff may take offence and report you.
Transgender travellers should ensure their legal identity and documentation match their gender.
If you are detained by the police you must
insist on being able to contact your embassy.
Do not give out your phone password,
or admit to or sign anything,
without trusted legal representation.
Before travelling, check what support your company will give you, if you are at risk.
Most business trips go without a hitch, and this advice should help keep you safer.